Title:

ClaimBuster: The Quest to Automate Fact-Checking 

Abstract:

During this time of presidential campaigning, candidates often play fast and loose with facts. How can voters determine if a candidate's statements are true, partially true or completely false? To eventually assist voters in making such decisions, ClaimBuster - a fact-checking system - uses machine learning and natural language processing techniques to help journalists find political claims to fact-check. Still in development, the prototype of ClaimBuster was tested in real-time during recent Democratic and Republican debates. Closed captions of the debates on Fox, CNN and CNBC were fed to ClaimBuster, which immediately found claims that should be checked and posted them to the project's Twitter account. Post-hoc analysis of the claims checked by professional fact-checkers at CNN, PolitiFact.com and FactCheck.org shows that many of them were deemed check-worthy by ClaimBuster, suggesting a statistically significant agreement between ClaimBuster and professionals. Now ClaimBuster is constantly monitoring Twitter and retweeting important factual claims it finds. This talk will explain the ideas behind ClaimBuster, its crowdsourcing-based data collection process, the experience with recent debates, and the quest for the "Holy Grail" – a completely automated fact-checking machine that detects and verifies or disputes claims as they are spoken. 

Bio:

Dr. Chengkai Li is Associate Professor and Director of the Innovative Database and Information Systems Research Laboratory (IDIR) in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the University of Texas at Arlington.  His research interests are in several areas related to big data and data science, including database, data mining, Web data management, and information retrieval. His current research focuses on building large-scale human-assisting and human-assisted data and information systems with high usability, low cost and applications for social good. His research projects are on computational journalism, crowdsourcing and human computation, data exploration by ranking (top-k), skyline and preference queries, database testing, entity query, and usability challenges in querying graph data. Dr. Li received his Ph.D. degree in computer science from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He graduated from Nanjing University with an M.Eng. degree and a B.S. degree in Computer Science. He is a recipient of the HP Labs Innovation Research Awards in 2011 and 2012.
