Dear Chengkai Li: 

We regret to inform you that your submission number 300 titled 

Generating Preview Tables for Entity Graphs

has not been accepted in the Research program at WWW 2014.   (The acceptance rate was 12.9% -
- 84 papers out of 650 submissions)

Nevertheless, we wish to thank for your interest in WWW2014 and hope that the enclosed 
comments will help you improve your work.   If appropriate you might consider resubmitting it as 
a poster to WWW (deadline January 5) or to one of the many workshops that will take place at 
WWW (deadline January 14).    In any case, we hope that you will join us in Seoul:  the registration 
is now open at    http://www2014.kr/registration/ (early bird deadline February 17, 2014).  

Thank you again, best wishes for the holidays, and a Happy New Year!  -- Andrei, Kyuseok, Torsten


----------------------- REVIEW 1 ---------------------
PAPER: 300
TITLE: Generating Preview Tables for Entity Graphs
AUTHORS: Ning Yan, Abolfazl Asudeh and Chengkai Li

OVERALL EVALUATION: -2 (marginal)
REVIEWER'S CONFIDENCE: 4 (high)
This is the best paper among the papers I reviewed: 2 (No)

----------- REVIEW -----------
Given a large-scale entity graph with many types of entities and relations, this paper proposes some methods to automatically generate preview tables to assist users in attaining a quick and rough preview of the entity graph. The problem is challenging due to the scale and complexity of such graphs. In this paper, the authors firstly propose scoring functions for measuring the goodness of preview tables. Then they formulate several optimization problems that look for previews with the highest scores, under constraints on preview size and distance between preview tables. They prove this problem is NP-hard under distance constraint. To solve this problem, they design a dynamic-programming algorithm and an Apriori-style algorithm for finding optimal previews.  They conducted experiments on Freebase data, and the results show their algorithms are efficient to find optimal previews. 

Overall, this task is interesting and difficult. The paper is well-written, and the presented model and algorithm are interesting. My main and biggest concern however is related to the scoring definition for measuring the goodness of previews. The intuition is reasonable; however, the definitions are too heuristic. From the experimental results in Section 6.1, the results are not very satisfactory. In Figure 5, P@10 is about 0.4 in 5 out of the 6 domains. In Table 3, for 5 out of 6 domains, the results show a medium positive correlation between their scoring measures and AMT workers, rather than a strong positive correlation. This scoring definition is the key for the success of this algorithm. If this scoring measure cannot measure the goodness of preview tables well, the final results may be not very satisfactory. I think the score of the preview should be the weighted sum of different features (for both key attributes and non-key attributes). The different weights for vari
ous features could be learned from labeled data, which is more reasonable. 

In the first paragraph of Section 4, ‘Section 4’ should be ‘Section 3’.
The authors did not introduce the size of the data set, so the readers do not know the exact size of the test entity graph and also how challenging the task to generate the preview is.


----------------------- REVIEW 2 ---------------------
PAPER: 300
TITLE: Generating Preview Tables for Entity Graphs
AUTHORS: Ning Yan, Abolfazl Asudeh and Chengkai Li

OVERALL EVALUATION: 3 (should accept)
REVIEWER'S CONFIDENCE: 4 (high)
This is the best paper among the papers I reviewed: 1 (Yes)

----------- REVIEW -----------
This paper proposes to generate preview tables as a compact summarization for an entity graph. The problem is interesting and can find its applications on many knowledge graphs. A series of scoring functions, problem models and algorithms are proposed. The NP-hardness of the proposed problem model is proved. The proposed algorithm seems sound. The paper in general is well presented. But the current version still has the following weakness:

The motivation of the problem is still weak. Authors claim that the summary produced by the previous approach is still quite large. But many summarization approaches can be repeatedly executed on a summary until the summary is small enough. 

The challenge is also unknown. In general generating a small enough summary is not challenging. The scoring also seems straightforward.  

The rationality of the proposed scoring mechanism is not sufficiently discussed. Authors mainly use the frequency of an attribute in the entity graph as the basic scoring mechanism. It is arguable whether frequency is a good mechanism to summarize a knowledge graph.  For example, in many case we hope to get a complete summary instead of a summary focusing on the most frequent entities.


Parameter selection is not discussed. In this paper, selection of k (the number of key attributes) and n (the number of non-key attributes) are important issues. Unfortunately, how to select them is not known. It is expected to discuss this issue.

The experiments are not enough. Only results on Freebase are tested. Freebase is edited by human. It is less convincible if only such a well-edited knowledge base is tested. We expect to see the results on other knowledge bases. Currently, whether the proposed solution can work on other knowledge base is with uncertainty. 

Some experimental results seem to be discouraging. For example, in Figure 5, P@K is about 40%. In Table 3, most PCC is less than 0.5. It implies that the user study result has weak correlation with the result of the proposed approach. Authors ignore the complexity of the computation of the scoring functions in the complexity analysis of their approach. Since G_d is significantly larger than G_s, this part of complexity cannot be ignored.


----------------------- REVIEW 3 ---------------------
PAPER: 300
TITLE: Generating Preview Tables for Entity Graphs
AUTHORS: Ning Yan, Abolfazl Asudeh and Chengkai Li

OVERALL EVALUATION: -2 (marginal)
REVIEWER'S CONFIDENCE: 4 (high)
This is the best paper among the papers I reviewed: 2 (No)
Recommend this paper as a poster: 2 (No)

----------- REVIEW -----------
This paper proposes automatically generating preview tables for entity graphs. A formal definition of preview discovery problem is given, which basically is a optimal searching
problem. To measure the quality of a preview, a scoring function is defined. They also provide intuitive measures for scoring attributes of preview tables, including coverage-based, random-walk and entropy-based score. The importance of balancing the tradeoff between preview size and score is emphasized. Due to this tradeoff the searching has constraints which are size and distance. They prove that with such constraints the preview discovery problem is NP-hard by the bijection with the clique finding problem.

To deal with this problem, they provide three algorithms: brute force, dynamic programming and apriori-style algorithm. Experiments are on the entity graph from Freebase and are currently limited to named entities. Accuracy of preview scoring measures and also efficiency are explored.

The problem of preview discovery seems original and well defined. One weakness is motivation. This paper says "...assist users in attaining a quick and rough preview of the data". A specific application would be useful. In the introduction part, the arguement that summary of the schema graph is inadequate is not convincing. Is there any existing schema summarization method which can address the same problem? At the least, it should be taken into consideration. Otherwise, experiment results without comparison are not strong enough to convince people. Also, the "gold standard" for top attributes shown in the paper may no longer be appropriate since Freebase has changed.

Other issues are that the weightings of the entities in the same table could still be different.
However, this approach doesn't include this factor in the table generating process. The importance score simply relies on the structure of the schema graph rather than the entire entity graph.

In addition, to increase the coverage score, it seems that the proposed methods would
prefer selecting the schema graphs that consist of many entities.  Thus, even
though the number of tables and the number of attributes in a preview table are
limited, it may generate tables with many entities, which can still be space
costly.  It might be more reasonable to add constraints on the number of entities
per table as well.

Finally, the problem is very similar to the work on relational database summarization.  Although the authors compared them in Section 1, it seems that they are very similar in principle.  Deeper insights to similarity and difference are important for evaluation and comparison.


-------------------------  METAREVIEW  ------------------------

There is no metareview for this paper
