Title:

ClaimBuster: The Quest to Automate Fact-Checking 

Abstract:

Our society is struggling with an unprecedented amount of falsehoods. In fighting against misinformation and disinformation, fact-checkers diligently vet claims by investigating relevant data and documents. The challenge is that the human fact-checkers cannot keep up with the amount of falsehoods and the speed at which they spread. This challenge creates an opportunity for automated fact-checking systems. On the other hand, fact-checking technology is lagging behind. Although relevant tools and techniques can assist fact-checking in various areas, a full-fledged, end-to-end system simply does not exist. 

Starting from December 2014, we have been building ClaimBuster, an end-to-end system for computer-assisted fact-checking. ClaimBuster uses machine learning, natural language processing, and database query techniques to aid in the process of fact-checking. It monitors live discourses (e.g., interviews, speeches and debates), social media, and news to identify factual claims, detect matches between those claims and a curated repository of fact-checks from professionals, and deliver those matches instantly to the audience (e.g., by displaying a pop-up warning if a presidential candidate makes a false claim during a live debate). For various types of new claims not checked before, ClaimBuster automatically translates them into queries against knowledge databases and reports whether they check out. For claims where humans must be brought into the loop, ClaimBuster provides algorithmic and computational tools to assist lay persons and professionals in understanding and verifying those claims. While the development of the full-fledged system is still ongoing, several components of ClaimBuster are integrated and deployed at http://idir.uta.edu/claimbuster/. 

Bio:

Dr. Chengkai Li is Associate Professor and Director of the Innovative Database and Information Systems Research Laboratory (IDIR) in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the University of Texas at Arlington.  His research interests are in several areas related to big data and data science, including database, data mining and Web data management. His current research focuses on building large-scale human-assisting and human-assisted data and information systems with high usability, low cost and applications for social good. His research projects are on computational journalism, crowdsourcing and human computation, data exploration by ranking (top-k), skyline and preference queries, database testing, entity query, and usability challenges in querying graph data. Dr. Li received his Ph.D. degree in computer science from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He graduated from Nanjing University with an M.Eng. degree and a B.S. degree in Computer Science. He is a recipient of the HP Labs Innovation Research Awards in 2011 and 2012.
