---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: najork@microsoft.com <najork@microsoft.com>
Date: Thu, Mar 8, 2012 at 2:36 PM
Subject: Transactions on the Web - Decision on Manuscript ID TWEB-11-0098
To: "Yan, Ning" <ning.yan@mavs.uta.edu>
Cc: "tweb@acm.org" <tweb@acm.org>


08-Mar-2012

Dear Mr. Yan:

Manuscript ID TWEB-11-0098 entitled "Dynamic Discovery of Query-Dependent Faceted Interface for Document Exploration" which you submitted to the Transactions on the Web, has been reviewed.  The comments of the reviewers are included at the bottom of this letter.

The reviewers have several suggestions for revising your manuscript.  Therefore, I invite you to respond to the reviewers' comments and revise your manuscript for further review.  Please address the comments below in your revised version and create a file or note indicating how you have addressed them.   When you resubmit your paper, the Manuscript Central paper submission system will give you instructions for uploading this information.

To submit your revised manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/tweb  and enter your Author Center, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions."  Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision."  Your manuscript number has been appended to denote a revision.

IMPORTANT:  Your original files are available to you when you upload your revised manuscript.  Please delete any redundant files before completing the submission.


Would you be able to send us your revised submission within 3 months?  Please confirm by responding to tweb@acm.org.

Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to the Transactions on the Web, and I look forward to receiving your revision.

Sincerely,
Marc Najork
Editor-in-Chief, ACM Transactions on the Web



Associate Editor's Comments to Author:

Associate Editor: Hearst, Marti
Comments to the Author:
The authors have completed a substantial body of work around the problem of transforming an existing category system into a smaller system based on input data.  The algorithm, which has been previously published in two high-profile venues, focuses on coverage and shortness of navigation path rather than on faceted combinations or understandability of facets.  The algorithm is run against small collections of documents on queries consisting primarily of terms that specify a set of proper nouns as their results.  In fact, the authors state that "an inteface should not include two facets that overlap much, which is not a principle of standard faceted interfaces" whose goal is to provide multiple navigation paths to the same results, allowing users to select which of many dimensions they wish to chose first (e.g., find basketball players by first selecting their team, then their height, or by first selecting their salary range, then their city, then their height).

Three reviewers assessed this submission, including myself.

The first reviewer recommended revise and resubmit.  This reviewer noted that as currently designed, the facets obtained are not useful for browsing.  This reviewer points out that the categories obtained are not really faceted, and recommends improvements to the algorithm to improve the results.

A second reviewer also recommended revise and resubmit.  This reviewer questions the amount of new material in this submission versus the previously published work.  Although this person feels that transfer to a new domain can warrant enough of an expansion of the work, the authors did not explore this use of their algorithm thoroughly enough.

I have two fundamental objections to this paper as written.  The first is the claim that the results derived are faceted and the second is that the evaluation is not rigorous and appropriate enough for publication in TWEB.

In more detail, first, the authors claim to derive faceted categories, but they do not do so.  Rather, they traverse available structures (from Wikipedia in this case) to extract subsets.  This would be terrific if it yielded good results, but in my view it does not, and the evaluation done did not assess the quality of the facets obtained.  For a journal article the authors should consider evaluation techniques like those used in Stoica and Hearst for assessing the quality of the resulting categories.  This includes assessing the hierarchical aspects and the logical structure.  More details are in the discussion of section 1.1 below.

I also feel that the evaluation is flawed for several reasons:

(1) The choice of terms to evaluate against is not well-motivated and seems to be tailored to make the performance of this particular algorithm look good.  A better method is to randomly select queries from a natural source such wikipedia query logs. Or if the authors think their approach works only for a subset of certain types of queries, then state that assumption, still use natural queries, and be sure that the conclusions drawn from the work reflect the limitations of the assumptions.

(2) The categories are built from just 200 items.   The Stoica and Hearst algorithm is intended to build a facet system for a set of documents with tens of thousands of entries.  Building categories for small subsets of documents is a different and in my experience a much easier problem, and most likely lends itself to different evaluation algorithms that focus on their user for understanding a small set of documents.  The evaluation methods of Kaki et al. on the Findex system may be more appropriate for that use, and Findex might be a better baseline to compare against.

(3) The experiment design is not described clearly.  Which parts are between subjects and which within?  How was order accounted for?  Using only one qualitative score is not revealing.  See the evaluations done by the related work to understand how to better design studies, or chapter 2 of Search User Interfaces by Hearst.

In comparing this expanded version of the paper to the WWW and CIKM papers, the authors note that the new parts consist of application to news for the FacetedNews system, new studies in section 7 for facetednews and also added in another wikipedia faceted system, but as discussed above, these studies are problematic., new figures and examples, a new related work section, section 8, which I do not think improves the paper, and more implementation details in section 6.

I do not think that these additions merit publication of this work in TWeb.  Instead, a new set of evaluations, done more scientifically and with better evaluations of the actual facets developed, and with fairer comparisons to other systems, could make this work acceptable for TWeb.  But absent that, it is not.

So my recommendation is revise and resubmit, where a revision must fundamentally address the problems mentioned here. This requires more work on the part of the authors rather than just a revision of the paper itself.

Section 1
Section 1.1

"have grown over" ->
"have grown to over"

I would argue that after keyword search, hyperlink following in wikipedia is avery impotent navigation strategy.

What proof is there that navigating in wikipedia is error prone?

American actors by state and its ilk are not valid categories in the faceted paradigm.  If the authors want to claim these are good categories despite breaking the faceted paradigm,  the evaluation of this system should test for this.  In more detail:

       film_prod_companies_of_the_US should be two facets:
       companies: film production
       Location: US

If one selects Tom Cruise then one wants to see which films he has starred in, who has been his directors, who are his fellow actors, which academy awards he's won.

The facets shown here distort all this.  I see instead of "academy awards" "academy award winners" and under directors, along with Spielberg (good) I see American_film_directors_by_national_origin.


The same goes for the basketball players.  Instead of UConn Huskies mens basketball player being a facet, it should be
Sport > basketball
Gender > men's
State > Connecticutt
Players > [names of players]
Team names > [names of teams]
Team Memberships > [NBA, Olympic, NFL, etc]


The user, given these, can mix and match the attributes that they want flexibly.  But the labels shown in newspedia are confusing and unnatural.   The example in the text is awkward.  A category like nationalBasketballAssociationPlayersByClub combines three attributes: players, club, and NBA membership.  It doesn't allow for the step-by-step thinking and navigation that faceted navigation is intended to support.

As another example problem ,with this design is you have to have a separate category for Olympic basketball, for Olympic Baseball, Olympic Football etc etc, in one facet.  It's much better to just let the user combine from the choices:

sport > [basketball, football, baseball, ¡­]
team membership > [NBA, olympic, NFL, ¡­]

Instead I see 20th_century_births, which is not particularly intuitive and if asked I assume the participants would express this as well.

This makes data entry simpler.  It allows the different facets to be independent of one another.  In the schema presented in the paper, if you update one facet you have to update all others as well.  If I added a new NBA player who plays for the celtics and was a draft pick for the nuggets,  But with a truly faceted representation you simply associate the attributes with the item and all the facets are automatically generated.

It's easy to automatically derive facets if you don't care how faceted they are.  Many algorithms will produce results like this, I know from experience.  The hard part is to create truly faceted categories.


1.2.
I don't buy the argument that facets can't be generated for documents.  I do agree it's a hard problem and would like to see advances on how to do it.  Stoica et al did make headway on this.

The authors assume a manual approach can't scale but much of the recent user generated content work and crowd source work may show this is not the case, especially if the facets do not need to be exhaustive.  But in any case, an automated approach is of course better.

wikipedia's categories are unruly which is why attempts to facet it in the past have not succeeded

evaluation measures: what will navigation cost mean?  Does it include intuitiveness?

1.3 Others have tried to do query dependent faceted interfaces: see work by Tunkelang

"we conducted user study" (missing an "a")

Section 2.
Pratt et al listed twice; did not look at faceted interface but rather at hierarchical categories vs clusters
Kaki was not faceted either, nor was Rodden.

The authors are confusing categories with faceted categories.  Chen, Pratt, Kaki all looked at flat categories, or hierarchical categories, but did not allow the slicing and dicing of faceted navigation.

In describing the work of Stoica and Hearst and Dakka et al, what is the justification for the phrase "These systems cannot leverage as much semantic information."  What does leverage mean?  As much as what?  What is the proof?

Hearst et al could have used other relations than IS-A, but the problem is that those other relations do not make for good facets for the most part (with the exception of part-of in some cases).


Section 7

The evaluation is discussed in the comments at the beginning of this review.

Why are all the queries on proper nouns?  Why do they have to mention US?  The queries I see are:
"us action film"
"us natural parks"
"us country singer"
"us action film"
"album"

These are very clearly biased towards the system being tested.

Here I will note that when I looked at the online version of the surveys I was able to see the results for the comparison systems.  The authors clearly made no attempt to use the Castanet algorithm properly, not having cut off the top levels and only showing the top levels (abstraction, entity, grouping, etc) There is also little room allotted to the facets compared to the facetpedia layout.   The lowest level categories are not shown.  Finally, the data items are all proper nouns which are not part of the WordNet collection and so it is not surprising that these categories are not good for those queries.

The comparison to dbpedia is also not valid as the interface is entirely different and it is confusing to see two of one type of UI and a third of another.  The authors are confounding interface type with metadata type in this comparison.

Section 8
This related work section is out of place and disconnected with the rest of the paper.  Why not describe these systems in the context of the earlier discussions of related work?




Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:

Reviewer: 1

Recommendation: Revise & Resubmit

Comments:
The paper is well written, and addresses well related work. I liked the
idea of using Wikipedia for building facets; it is definitely beneficial
to leverage this manually annotated metadata.

However, many facets presented in the paper, do not seem to
me that useful for browsing, as they look a lot like browsing raw Wikipedia
categories. It would be more useful to extract the facets from
Wikipedia, but present them to the user in a format that uses
"day by day vocabulary", and gives the
user the dimensions that would indeed help them to refine the search.

For example, in Figure 2, facet "American_actors_by_state" with
subcategories like "New York actors", "New Jersey actors", is less
useful for browsing than having a simple list of actors, similar to
the directors facet. Furthermore, the facets presented in Figure 3,
after the user selected "New York actors", include categories like
"American film directors by ethnic", "American fiction writers", "American writers by
genre", "American writers by city", "American writers by state", etc
which provide a great deal of detail that may actually make browsing difficult.
A simple list of writers may be more useful.

Figure 17 shows root categories for some queries. Again, some facets
seem not that useful, for example for query "best seller book",
there are categories like "American personel of WW II", "Faculty by university
or college in the US", "People by high school in US", "People of
English Descent", etc.

I suggest to further compress the hierarchy, such that more intermediate categories are eliminated. Also, to shorten the category names so that they resemble more the day by day vocabulary. For example, a facet like "Film_production_companies_of_the_United_States" can be "Film_production_companies". The authors may apply various rules to shorten
 facet names (e.g., limit to three words, choose only the word/subphrase that
 is the most popular in queries, etc)

I liked the facets for news (Figure 4). Maybe the paper can
focus more on this domain.

Since the evaluation compares the work with Castanet and Faceted
Wikipedia Search, it would be good to show in the paper some facets
obtained with these systems too.

It may be good to cite / have a look at
Clusty/Yippy (http://yippy.com) which provides subcategories for browsing the search results of a query. It does not have facets, but the user has the option to
remix / recluster results to get more dimensions. Maybe the authors could incorporate such a feature in their work.

I think the paper has a lot of potential. By further refining
the categories to look more like the ones from newegg.com or ncsu, this could be a great paper.



Additional Questions:
Is the paper in the expected journal style?: Yes

If not, please note what key sections or components are missing (abstract, related work, evaluation, references, etc).:

Are the references comprehensive and appropriate?: Yes

If key references are missing, please list them. If there are too many self-citations, please suggest alternatives.:

Relative to the subject material, is the paper understandable without requiring too much effort on the part of the reader?: Yes

Please rate the relevance of the paper to TWEB from 1 to 5, 1 being the lowest/poorest score.: 5

Is there enough new content in this paper to distinguish it from other works? <br>
In answering this question, you can use the Manuscript Central capabilities for external searches on both the authors and title as well as the "Search for a Companion Paper" feature.  If significant parts of the paper have been previously published, authors are supposed to indicate this with their submission.  Unfortunately, not all authors do this.: Yes

If the paper is an extended version of a conference paper, does the submission provide enough new material for journal publication?: Yes

If the answer to either of these questions is no, please explain.:

Manuscripts submitted to TWEB should not be concurrently under review for publication in another conference or journal.  If you suspect that the same paper is simultaneously being considered for publication elsewhere, the editor should be notified.:

Is the work primarily theoretical, practical or is it a survey?: P

Is the content technically sound?: Yes

Please explain if not or if you are unsure.:

Rate the level of originality and innovation of the work reported from 1 to 5, 1 being the lowest/poorest score.: 3

Describe how the submission advances the state of the art in the field.: Discovering facets in real time is a difficult problem, and the idea of using Wikipedia for building facets is useful and interesting. However, I think the authors need to improve their algorithms in order to make the facets useful for browsing (see bellow).

Rate the impact of this work on the research community, 1 being the lowest/poorest score.: 3

Suggest beneficiaries from the work.: The work is definitely useful for the research community as it shows how Wikipedia can be used for building facets to explore documents. This complements other approaches that use manually annotated metadata (e.g., WordNet) for building facets.

Rate the impact of this work on the wider community, 1 being the lowest/poorest score.: 3

Suggest beneficiaries from the work. : This work can be useful for librarians, as well as for information exploration in general. Some commercial search applications (retail catalogs) use facets.


Reviewer: 2

Recommendation: Revise & Resubmit

Comments:
Overall, I enjoyed this paper. I believe the work as a whole is innovative and important. However, the bulk of the innovation (the entire approach to automatic faceted interface generation, concepts and algorithms) has been published by the authors previously in WWW. Therefore, the main contribution/extension of this work is demonstrating transferability of the approach to a new domain. The new material for this includes a generic model of faceted interfaces, a description of the implementation in Facetedpedia and Facetednews, and new user studies.

Concentrating on the new material as the main contribution of this work, I think the authors should provide more details about the studies conducted and the results obtained (e.g., in comparing the authors' approach to Castanet and Faceted Wikipedia Search). In addition, more insights into what worked well in Facetedpedia vs. Facetednews and vice versa would be useful. Therefore, I would suggest the authors address the following in a revision of the paper before this work should be published:

- Please provide more details about the study design. For example, on page 28, you write that users were asked to explore the results generated in each interface. How did the participants view the different interfaces? From the writing in the paper, it appears that for each query the participants had access to all interfaces and could compare them side by side. Is this the case or did they view the results of each query in each interface sequentially? Similarly, who were the participants? How long did they use each interface for? How were the interfaces demonstrated?

- Also, please give more details about the study results. Given that the studies were somewhat 'uncontrolled' (in that the Faceted Wikipedia Search interface was different than the Facetedpedia and Castanet interfaces), more qualitative comparisons would be helpful in interpreting the quality of the generated interfaces. For example, were there any insightful observations or comments from participants about the different interfaces? Some statistical results would also be appreciated. For example, were the differences in ratings for each interface statistically different?

- One way of helping the reader compare the performance of the different interfaces would be to present some of the faceted categories generated by both the Castanet and Faceted Wikipedia Search interfaces. Seeing these next to Figure 17 and Figure 18 would be very informative.

- Also, why are the coverage results much higher in this paper than the coverage results in the WWW paper? This paper reports 79-96% coverage of the faceted interfaces generated by the authors approach. However, the WWW paper reported coverage of 68.9-72.3%. This seems like a big difference. Is this a result of a different data set or changes to the algorithm? Some insight into this would be useful for future researchers to understand when the approach works and when it does not.

- Please explain what you mean when you say a "faceted interface is more effective on a set of homogeneous target entities" p25. And please explain why this wasn't necessary in Facetednews. You write "we did not find it empirically important to require news articles to be 'homogeneous'" p25. Where is the empirical data to support this? How does one determine whether this is necessary or not? This would help future researchers and practitioners who may want to implement similar techniques in other domains.

Minor comments:
- Fix the arrows in figures 13 and 15. It¡¯s hard to tell where they start which makes it hard to understand the architecture.


Additional Questions:
Is the paper in the expected journal style?: Yes

If not, please note what key sections or components are missing (abstract, related work, evaluation, references, etc).:

Are the references comprehensive and appropriate?: Yes

If key references are missing, please list them. If there are too many self-citations, please suggest alternatives.:

Relative to the subject material, is the paper understandable without requiring too much effort on the part of the reader?: Yes

Please rate the relevance of the paper to TWEB from 1 to 5, 1 being the lowest/poorest score.: 5

Is there enough new content in this paper to distinguish it from other works? <br>
In answering this question, you can use the Manuscript Central capabilities for external searches on both the authors and title as well as the "Search for a Companion Paper" feature.  If significant parts of the paper have been previously published, authors are supposed to indicate this with their submission.  Unfortunately, not all authors do this.: Yes

If the paper is an extended version of a conference paper, does the submission provide enough new material for journal publication?: Yes

If the answer to either of these questions is no, please explain.:

Manuscripts submitted to TWEB should not be concurrently under review for publication in another conference or journal.  If you suspect that the same paper is simultaneously being considered for publication elsewhere, the editor should be notified.:

Is the work primarily theoretical, practical or is it a survey?: P

Is the content technically sound?: Yes

Please explain if not or if you are unsure.:

Rate the level of originality and innovation of the work reported from 1 to 5, 1 being the lowest/poorest score.: 2

Describe how the submission advances the state of the art in the field.: The original work (the WWW paper) was very innovative and advanced the state of the art in automatic faceted interface generation. For example, the original paper was thorough and clear in the concepts and algorithms designed to generate faceted interfaces. In addition, all the assumptions made in the algorithms were clearly documented which can greatly benefit future researchers who may want to apply similar techniques to other domains or to improve the algorithms further.

However, I gave this paper a 2 in terms of level of originality because the bulk of that novelty and innovation was published in the original paper. The main contribution of this paper is the extended studies and application of the same methodology to another domain (news articles). I do believe that, in general, showing transferability of an idea is enough new material to warrant a journal publication. However, in this case I think this section (about the application to Facetednews and the new user studies) is missing some important information and should be improved before publication (see my comments to the authors below).

Rate the impact of this work on the research community, 1 being the lowest/poorest score.: 4

Suggest beneficiaries from the work.: Considering both the previously published contributions and new extensions, I believe many researchers could benefit from this work including researchers and designers of faceted interfaces, Web search and navigation systems, and researchers interested in AI/ML applications in user interfaces.

Rate the impact of this work on the wider community, 1 being the lowest/poorest score.: 4

Suggest beneficiaries from the work. : Assuming wider community means beyond research (e.g., practitioners), I think there may be slightly less of an impact. On the one hand, the authors provide a generic model of faceted interfaces and describe the implementations of their Facetpedia and Facetednews systems which could help practitioners in implementing faceted interface generation in other domains. On the other hand, the authors could have provided more insights into the differences between the Facetpedia and Facetednews system implementations and study results. For example, were there some types of articles/domains for which the approach worked better for in either Facetpedia and Facetednews? These types of insights could greatly benefit practitioners wanting to apply these techniques in other domains.

