----------------------- REVIEW 1 ---------------------
PAPER: 29
TITLE: Comparing Automated Factual Claim Detection Against Judgements of Journalism Organizations
AUTHORS: Naeemul Hassan, Fatma Arslan, Mark Tremayne and Chengkai Li

OVERALL EVALUATION: 3 (strong accept)
REVIEWER'S CONFIDENCE: 4 (high)

----------- Review -----------
This article describes the operation of the automated fact-checking system ClaimBuster, particularly its application to the 2016 Democratic and Republican primary debates. The system develops a model of whether a sentence is likely to contain a check-worthy claim, based on human coded data from transcripts of previous presidential debates. In real time the system assigns a score between 0 and 1 for whether the sentence is check-worthy. The authors compare their checkworthy scores with the sentences chosen for checking by CNN and PolitiFact, and find that the mean value of the checkworthy score for the sentences chosen for checking is much higher than the mean value for sentences not chosen for checking. The authors also developed a coding scheme for what topics the claims relate to. This allows them to assign sentences to topics used in the debate. They are able to show by candidate and by party the percentage of sentences which contain checkworthy statements, and to share t!
 he distribution of sentences and distribution of factchecks by CNN and PolitiFact over topics. Planned extensions include expanding this to debates in other countries and to the construction of a repository of fact checks done by media organizations so that in real time one eventually would be able to spot a factual claim in a debate, determine if it had been checked, and report the veracity rating if it had been checked. Note that the current data would allow one in future work to see the frequency with which facts are repeated by candidates across debates, and one could also see in the later debates how often factual claims were made that had already been checked by media organizations.
